--- 
layout: post
title: A Brief History of Blogging (Or, Cultural Epistemology Revisited)
date: 2011-3-21
comments: true
categories: [featured, culture]
link: false
---
&nbsp;

Here is a fascinating article about the history of blogging. It's remarkable to be living in a time in which the technology of communication is moving &amp; changing so rapidly. If <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Amusing-Ourselves-Death-Discourse-Business/dp/014303653X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1300769663&amp;sr=8-1" target="_blank">Neil Postman's thesis</a> is right--namely, that the medium <em>is</em> the metaphor--and that changing media result in changing epistemologies, then we may be experiencing the most rapid &amp; revolutionary epistemological revolution in human history. Perhaps more simply: if our media of communication shape of knowledge &amp; perception of the world around us, then any change is those media will result in a concomitant transformation of our perceptions, thoughts, and &amp; very understanding of the world around us. We can even speak of "cultural epistemology" as the perceptions, understandings, and foundational ideas that are shared by most, if not all, persons in a given culture. Cultural epistemology is both communicated through &amp; founded upon technologies of communication. For example, Americans in the early 19th century, whose primary technology of communication was print, tending to think of their Presidents in terms of their <em>ideas</em>, not as an <em>image</em> of their faces (cf. Postman). Indeed, Postman remarks that our first 15 Presidents could have walked through almost any town in America unnoticed. But their ideas, as embedded in print media &amp; shared orally through reading in family and other community settings, were immediately recognizable even to the simplest laborer. Though print, Americans debated whether John Adams was right to support a strong executive &amp; centralized national bank, or whether his opponent, successor, and sometimes friend Thomas Jefferson was right to challenge these ideas by empowering strong state &amp; local governments. In either case, because Americans at that time perceived the world primarily through print media, with its focus on exposition, logic, rhetoric, and argumentation, they approached politics--and, by extension, the world itself--with a radically different epistemology than we do today.

Compare the Lincoln/Douglas debates, with their hours of mind-numbing expository speeches, some running as long as 8 or 9 hours before both men were finished, with the Kennedy/Nixon debates in 1960. Witness what a radical transformation in public discourse had a occurred thanks to televised media. None of us remember what Kennedy &amp; Nixon were debating; what we do know is that Kennedy looked young, handsome, charmed, &amp; strong, whereas Nixon appeared to be a grouchy, power-hungry bump-on-the-log. No small wonder that  Kennedy won. Unlike Lincoln &amp; Douglas, where a print-based technology prompted a national debate of <em>ideas</em>, Kennedy &amp; Nixon contended via a televised technology that prompted a national debate of <em>images</em>. And, as has so often been the case since then, the most charming &amp; sauve candidate usually wins (Kennedy, Reagan, Clinton, Obama). In the 19th century, a great leader was possessed by great <em>ideas</em>; in the 20th, a great leader was possessed of a good <em>image</em>. Radio &amp; television did much more than reduce mere numbers of reading citizens; they transformed the way in which citizens perceived realtiy. Not only did our technologies of communication shift from words to image, but our very perception of reality shifted from word to image. Our cultural epistemology was utterly transformed.

But what does this have to do with blogging? Well, absolutely everything. The internet is rapidly displacing television &amp; print media as our primary sources of information &amp; communication. Soon, every mode of communication--radio, television, newspapers, magazines, you-name-it--will all be transmitted through the Internet whose presence is already ubiquitous in our lives. This raises important questions. How will these new &amp; rapidly shifting technologies transform our cultural epistemology? How will they change our very perceptions of the world, our social expectations for one another, our public &amp; democratic discourse, our social networks of family, friends, coworkers, and community?

I have no answers to any of these questions, but they fascinate &amp; haunt me nonetheless. Careful attention to the rapid development of the most powerful &amp; ubiquitous of these technologies--such as the blogosphere, social media, open-source encyclopedias, fragmented news sources, etc--may give us some hint of what is to come.

Nevertheless, I cannot get over the feeling that we do not yet have any clue about the nature &amp; implications of what we are developing. I would not argue that this is a good or bad thing: it is a plain fact that we must examine with cooly, confidently, and patiently. I am certain that <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johannes_Gutenberg" target="_blank">Johannes Gutenburg</a> had no idea what power he was unleashing into the world when his long-labors finally bore fruit in the printing press of 1440. In hindsight, we know that his work wrought a greater transformation of human culture than anything ever dreamed of by the princes of his age. The photography, telegraph, telephone, radio, and television have resulted in equally radical &amp; powerful cultural transformations &amp; upheavals. How will blogging, social media, &amp; other new and not-yet-understood technologies of communication similarily revolutionize our cultural epistemology? The future is unknown, but perhaps some fragmentary historical reminiscences will offer us an inkling of what is to come.

<a href="http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2011/03/a-brief-history-of-blogging/" target="_blank">webdesigner depot</a>

